---
layout: post
title: "Release notes 4.8.15"
date: 2014-04-30
---

<div class="mainContent" style="font-family: Trebuchet MS,Tahoma,Helvetica; font-size: 14px;">
<p><a name="5_13"></a></p>

<p style="font-family: Trebuchet MS,Tahoma,Helvetica; color: #29383f; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: bold;">This Rapid7&reg; Nexpose&reg; 5.13 release contains:</p>

<h3 style="font-family: Trebuchet MS,Tahoma,Helvetica; color: #ea5709; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: bold;">Big application changes! <span style="color:#29383f">  </span></h3>

<p><span style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">5.13 brings some major product updates that include Mobile Risk Assessment, DHCP asset discovery, enhancements to the <i>Assets</i> pages, the ability to scan asset groups, two new reports, and more! 
<br>Go <a href="https://community.rapid7.com/Rapid7_DocumentationAndVideo?id=a1214000001vKetAAE&tag=Nexpose">here</a> for a video.</span>

<ul>
	<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> <b>Mobile Risk Assessment</b>	The application now allows you to gain visibility into and assess the mobile devices in your environment for known risks. The application uses ActiveSync technology to gain insight into your mobile devices that are connected in your environment, by leveraging information on your on premise Microsoft Exchange server, LDAP, or in a cloud installation through Office365.
 </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"><b>New DHCP Discovery Method</b>	You can now dynamically discover assets through Microsoft DHCP log queries. This extends your visibility into your asset inventory by exposing assets that may not be otherwise apparent. Scan Engines query DHCP server logs, which dynamically update with fresh asset information every five seconds. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"><b><i>Assets</i> page enhancements </b>
<ul>
<li>The count of assets displayed at the top of the page now includes all assets discovered by a Dynamic Discovery connection, regardless of whether or not the assets have been scanned.</li>
<li>A new <i>Assessment Status</i> pie chart shows the ratio of assets that have been assessed with a vulnerability or policy scan to those that have only been discovered by a discovery scan or Dynamic Discovery connection.</li>
<li>The <i>Assessed Assets</i> table has been renamed <i>Scanned</i> and includes a new <i>Assessed</i> column that indicates whether an asset has been scanned for vulnerabilities.</li>
<li>A new <i>Discovered by Connection</i> table has been added, listing assets that have been discovered by a Dynamic Discovery connection but have not been scanned. This allows you to see at a glance which assets have not been assessed yet. This table will only appear when there is at least one Dynamic Discovery connection.</li>
<li>The <i>Assets by Operating System</i> table has been renamed <i>Operating Systems</i>.</li>
<li>The <i>Assets by Software</i> table has been renamed <i>Software</i>.</li>
<li>The <i>Assets by Service</i> table has been renamed <i>Services</i>.</li>
</ul> 
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"><b>Asset Group Scanning</b>	You can now scan asset groups. This feature provides you with more flexibility in how you scan for vulnerabilities and organize assets in your network.  </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"><b>Asset Group Copying</b>	You can now copy asset groups either in asset group tables or within the details view of an asset group. This allows you to quickly create and edit new asset groups based on older ones, so that you do not have to recreate reused settings. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	A<b> new report template</b> shows vulnerability exception activity during a specified time frame, so that you can track assessment activity in your organization. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	A <b>new report template</b> lists information about new assets discovered within a specific time period. This allows you to track changes to your network environment over time. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> <b>Linking Assets Across Sites</b>	You can now choose whether to link matching assets across two or more sites or treat them as unique entities.
Be aware that linking matching assets is a significant change to the relationship of your assets in the application and will disable your ability to make site-level exceptions, so make your decision carefully and perform a backup before making the switch.
Please refer to the <i>Linking Assets Across Sites</i> section of Help for more detailed information. </li></ul>

<h3 style="font-family: Trebuchet MS,Tahoma,Helvetica; color: #ea5709; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: bold;">Plus: <span style="color:#29383f">  </span></h3>
<ul>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	You can now view the sites an asset belongs to by clicking the <b>Global</b> link in the asset listing. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	You can now toggle to a raw text mode in the asset input section of the Site Configuration. This enhancement allows you to edit, copy, paste, or delete assets easily. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	Security Consoles and Scan Engines now use less memory. The benefits of this enhancement include the ability to run more concurrent scans as well as up to 50 percent reduction of at-rest memory usage. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	The <b>Scan Asset Now</b> button on the <i>Assets</i> page now scans the asset in the first site that originally scanned that asset. If the user does not have access to that asset, the button will not appear. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	The API 1.1 SiteSaveRequest has been updated to preserve asset groups specified as scan targets. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	A new API 2.1 endpoint supports the creation of sites that use asset groups as scan targets. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	A vulnerability exception applies to an asset in every site in which the asset appears if the administrative option to link assets across all sites has been enabled. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt"> 	The CSV export has been updated so that the <i>Site Importance, Site Name,</i> and <i>Scan Template</i> values are comma-delimited results when the administrative option to link assets across all sites has been enabled. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">The new reporting data model version (2.0.0) exposes the data from the product with respect to linking assets across sites. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	If the administrative option to link assets across sites is enabled, assets that are linked in more than one site are marked as <i>Global</i> in the <Site> column of asset tables. Assets that are not linked in more than one site are listed with the relevant site names. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	Performance enhancements have been made to lower CPU usage during policy assessment scans. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	The application now has the ability to determine the appropriate engines to be used for scanning asset groups. The application will look up the last engine used to scan each asset in the group and assign that particular engine for the scan. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	A new 2.1 endpoint supports the creation of sites that use asset groups as scan targets. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	HTTP connections that are no longer required will now be closed faster, greatly reducing the number of simultaneous connections during a scan. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	You can now create dynamic asset groups with mobile devices based on the most recent time they synchronized with the Exchange server. This be useful if you do not want your reports to include data from old devices that are no longer in use on the network. This feature supports mobile devices that were Dynamically Discovered with one of the Windows Remote Management (WinRM) discovery connections. </li>
<li style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">	You can now set the maximum scan duration of a scheduled scan by number of days, weeks, and hours in addition to the number of minutes. </li>
	
</ul>



<h3 style="font-family: Trebuchet MS,Tahoma,Helvetica; color: #ea5709; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: bold;">Recurring coverage <span style="color:#29383f"> | content</span></h3>

<p><span style="color:#808080; font-family:trebuchet ms,tahoma,helvetica; font-size:10pt">New and updated vulnerability checks help you protect your environment against the latest threats. See all the <a href="https://rapid7.my.salesforce.com/a1214000001vJ8z?nooverride=1" target="_blank">operating systems and applications</a> covered by these updates.</span></p>
</div>
